Good afternoon.
This is session 407,
the Accelerate Framework.
The Accelerate Framework was introduced
at last year's developers conference.
This year we'll rehash a little bit
about what was introduced last year,
but also give you part two.
If you know anything about Ali's team,
you know these are the guys who,
in your calculus class,
were the ones finishing the
word problems or the homework
before the class was even over.
They love math.
So I hope you guys enjoy this session.
And with that, I'd like to introduce Dr.
Ali Sazegari.
First, thank you very much for
coming to our session.
And what I'd like to talk to you about
is the Accelerate framework and what we
have done and we plan on doing for Tiger.
The talk is in three parts.
I'm going to give you a general
overview and some snippets
of results that we have.
And after that,
I'm going to pass it on to my colleague,
Ian Oldman, and he's going to talk about
the image processing library,
which was introduced last
year in the Panther OS.
And after that, I'm going to pass it
to my other colleague,
Steve, and he's going to talk more
about the numerics and the linear
algebra results that we have.
So let's get started.
So as you know, we have had this
particular configuration,
the AXLRATE framework,
which is a collection of all
the computational underpinnings
of the Mac OS X in Panther.
We've had the Veclip
section of it for a while.
Last year we introduced Vimage.
Veclip section had the signal processing,
the linear algebra,
the matrix computations, the BLAS,
the large number computations
and the math libraries
which took hardware vectors,
28 bit vectors.
We added image processing.
I'm happy to tell you a lot of people
are using our image processing inside
Apple and outside and we're going to
talk a little bit more about that.
One of the additions to the new
operating system is V-force.
V-force,
we've had a lot of calls for people who
wanted to use an array of elements and
pass it on to the elementary functions
and get the elementary function results,
not just pass it on in hardware vectors.
Hardware vectors are just
one scalar at a time.
V-force is our new library which
we will talk in depth later on.
Steve will talk about that.
What is delivered in Mac OS X Tiger?
Basically,
the Accelerate Framework is one-stop
shopping for computational performance,
digital signal processing.
We have expanded that in Tiger.
We will have about 340 new
functions in the VDSP subframework.
We have digital image processing.
We have expanded that also and with
added performance in some of the
core routines such as convolution.
The BLAS Level 1, 2, and 3,
if you're familiar with that,
these are the basic linear
algebra subroutines.
Again, these are the structures of
computations that people do for LAPACK.
The entire LAPACK that's
single and double,
real and complex for all of the routines.
Basically, this is the exact API that we
use for all of the routines.
This is the API that people who
are using LAPACK are used to.
VForce, the array LMs that we'll talk a
little bit more about that today,
and that's new in Tiger.
VMathLib,
the counterpart of regular LibM,
which runs on Scalar.
This one here runs on the Vector Engine.
I'm going to just touch on some of
the performance improvements and
performances that we have right
now in TIGER in some of the CDs,
the CDs that you've had.
First, I'd like to talk about
vFORCE performance.
These are DLMs.
We have single and double precisions.
They're highly accurate.
They operate on arrays instead
of elements or hardware vectors,
128-bit hardware vectors.
Monotonicity is observed over
the entire range of definitions.
That's pretty important because
there are competitors which do
have functionality such as this,
but they have cut lots of corners
and developers have to worry about
pitfalls of where to call or what
not to call or what elements to call.
Here, you're free to call anything.
Basically,
if it's in the floating point domain,
it will work, and it will not trip you,
and it will not give
you the wrong results.
I have a small little table here showing
you what the... benefits of vFORCE are.
I'm quite proud of this particular
piece of work that our group has done,
and Steve will talk about
this a little bit further.
Square root is 3.5, 3.1 times,
over 3 times faster than the current one.
Exponential is over 6 times,
and sine is 11 times faster.
Square root was already
pretty fast on G5s,
but we have it even faster on this.
The reason that these things... are
faster is that we are able to plug
in the bubbles in the computational
structure of the algorithms because
regular elementary functions just
don't have enough data to go through,
and you end up having a lot
of empty cycles going by.
This allows it to fill it up completely
and have stellar performance.
The next thing I'd like to talk to
you about is the LAPAC performance.
LINPAC, this is a lot of people
know about these results.
I just have a little bit of it here.
The DLP1000.
This is the double precision
LINPAC 1000 by 1000 matrix,
and we're above 5 gigaflops
for double precision,
and single precision
is over 7.5 gigaflops.
This is on a 2.5 gigahertz power PC.
Blas performance.
The quintessential Blas performance
benchmark is really DGIM,
and that's the double generalized
matrix-matrix multiply,
which is an enhanced matrix multiply
of a scalar times a matrix times a
matrix plus a scalar times a matrix.
And a lot of people like to look at that
to see the prowess of the implementation.
And what we have here is comparing that
with Optron because I get asked how
we compare with the competition here.
Higher numbers are better
on this particular one here.
Double precision size 5,500,
so if you multiplied 5,500 size matrices,
you will have a 12.8 on a matrix.
PowerPC and over 7
gigaflops for the Optron.
Now the Optron that we had on our
hand was a 2.0 gigahertz machine.
We just added 20% more to it.
We were unable to get a hold of a live
2.4 gigahertz machine to run that stuff.
We gave them exactly 20% up.
Generally, frequency goes up that much,
performance doesn't go up that much,
but we did.
So it's 12.8 versus 8.55.
What I have for graders
here is just for fun.
What would the S-GEM performance be?
And the S-GEM performance on
our machine is 23 gigaflops.
I don't know,
some of you know I've been in
competition for a while now,
and 20 gigaflops before required
many millions of dollars to achieve.
But 23 gigaflops is just a pittance now.
You can buy yourself a PowerPC at
2.5 gigahertz and get that.
VDSP Performance, our FFT,
we continue having a stellar collection
of FFTs for our users to use.
Single and double precision,
real and complex, 1D and 2D,
in place and out of place basically,
and Radix 2, 3, and 5.
We have them hand-tuned
for the vector engine,
and we also have it hand-tuned
for the dual scaler.
I have them for,
I'm comparing them with 3.2 GHz Xeons.
This time around,
we're not looking at the gigaflops,
we're looking at timing,
real microseconds,
because signal processors really
don't care very much about what the
throughput of floating point is.
They like to,
because they're real-time folks,
they like to find out exactly
what timing is on that.
Single precision 1024 complex,
which is always etched into my mind,
is 4.56 microseconds versus 6.3.
The FFT is only 1.13 on a 3.2 GHz Xeon,
and these are one processor only,
because the floating point,
the FFT and floating point,
it doesn't do that much work
to dole it out to processors.
Single precision 1024 real is 2.3
microseconds versus 4.27 microseconds.
So, you would think this is fast enough.
Why would you like to
make this any faster?
Just one example,
the quintessential example that
I like to give always is iTunes.
iTunes uses our FFT at a tune of 1.2 MHz.
It's that real FFT that gets used.
The more we shave off of that,
the faster your decoding
and encoding will go,
and the more we shave off
of computational things
like FFTs and IMDCTs,
the better your battery life will be.
So, this is pretty darn important to make
sure it always runs extremely fast.
Image Processing Library.
I'm very, very proud of this
particular set of work.
We set out and worked on this for
a year on Panther and delivered it.
And it's used in a lot of applications
that we have in-house and outside.
I just have a couple of
little things in here.
We have planar and chunky – kind of a
funny word – ARGB interleaved formats,
native support for 8-bit
and floating-point samples,
can be used in real-time.
It's multi-threaded so that
large images you can do better.
I have a small table
here for performance,
and what we have is
8-gigabyte image blurring.
I'm comparing that to the IPP,
which is the Intel Integrated
Performance Primitives that
some of you might have heard of.
The 8-gigabyte image
blur is 5.5 times faster.
emboss is 2.2 times faster.
Delivered in Mac OS X,
also let's not forget
the underpinnings of,
again, regular computation.
LibM – we are standards-conforming
APIs for IEEE 754 and C99.
Single and double.
Nguyen Tiger is our long-lost
128-bit long-double friend,
which is going to make
an appearance again.
We have really stellar
implementation for that – very,
very accurate computationally.
All of these guys are numerically robust,
highly accurate,
worry about the environmental
controls and never mess up anything.
We take a lot of care to make sure that
we conform to any existing standards.
Best-of-breed algorithms, basically.
Coding to LibM in C – straightforward.
You just call the compiler.
You don't have to say "-lm" on that.
Using the Accelerate Framework
in C – it's also straightforward.
All you need to do is just put
in "-framework" "accelerate".
So basically what I've done here
in the last few minutes is to just
give you a small sampling of what
we have in the image processing,
signal processing, BLAS, vforce,
and LAPAC.
And we're going to go into some of the
details of this work as we go along.
Now I'd like to pass this on
to my colleague Ian Ullman,
who is going to talk more
about the image processing.
Thank you.
vImage was introduced last year
at WWDC and shipped with Panther,
and since then we've gotten
a lot of feedback on it.
And we've taken your
suggestions to heart,
and so we've got more
improvements for it now.
vImage functionality remains
much as introduced previously
with some new features added on.
We still have native support for
8-bit and floating-point samples.
These can be arranged either in a planar,
which is to say all
one channel per array,
or a chunky format,
which would interleave several channels.
If you're doing 8-bit work and images,
then we throw in saturated clipping,
usually the ends of functions that can
overflow so you don't get the white goes
to black or black goes to white problem.
We've put in a lot of effort,
thinking the design over to make sure
that you can use these things real-time,
that we don't arbitrarily call malloc.
We give you the opportunity to
provide us with the temporary
buffers so you won't block on that,
that kind of thing.
We're also re-entrant so you can call
us in a multi-threaded environment,
and of course it's high performance,
accelerated for alt-evac.
[Transcript missing]
We also do morphology operations
where you can do kind of different
shape changing operations,
that kind of thing.
So here would be an example where
we've got a nice picture except
for what looks like a power
line up in the top left corner.
Wouldn't it be nice if
we could remove that?
Well, there's lots of ways,
but we'll just use
morphology for this example.
And so we can apply a max filter.
And max will go around and look at
all the pixels around this pixel in
question and take the maximum value.
So the power line is
kind of a dark image.
So as we apply the max filter,
it just goes away.
But you notice that some of the
white highlights got bigger.
So we can apply a min filter and
kind of subtract them back out again.
And so you have something that looks
like your original image back except now
that the power line is completely gone.
So you can do these for interesting
effects in addition to just shape
changing and that kind of thing.
So here's performance on that.
We've got a new algorithm for max,
which works substantially better.
Here you can see the 3.2 gigahertz
dual processor Xeon results.
Again, normalized to one is the
red line across the bottom.
And as the kernel size gets larger,
you can see our performance relative
to Xeon gets better and better.
And we're up to four times
faster for really large filters.
We do alpha compositing.
We can support either premultiplied
images or non-premultiplied images.
We have functions to
premultiply/unpremultiply data.
We've now added a few
new functions for Tiger.
You can mix non-premultiplied
into a premultiplied layer,
which allows you to do multiple
stacks as you go along.
And we added in compositing
with a scalar fade value,
which allows you to sort of fade in
the whole image without going through
and writing over the alpha channel.
So those will be available.
We also have new type
conversion features.
This was actually surprising,
at least to us.
The number one requested feature.
It seems that everybody has their own
data format that they like to use.
So we've got a lot of conversions
to get that in and out of
what vImage likes to use.
So we now can handle 24-bit,
8-bit per channel color.
Also the older ARGB 1555 and
RGB 565 16-bit per pixel formats.
We do also the 16-bit per channel integer
support and signed and unsigned flavors.
And we've also introduced
OpenEXR compliance 16-bit floating
point conversion functions
in case you need to work with
video cards that use those things.
Also added a few other things that allow
you to insert channels into interleaved
images or permute channels around.
Like let's say you need to
swap around an ARGB image to
an RGBA or something like that.
So those things will be there.
They'll be fully vectorized and
they're pretty much operated.
Bandwidth limited rates.
Also added color space transforms.
We originally didn't put these
in because we thought we would
leave these up to ColorSync.
But now ColorSync wants to use our codes.
So we have them in there.
We have matrix multiplication.
So saturated clipping for 8-bit,
of course, to prevent overflow.
We allow you to put in an
optional pre and post bias.
Mathematically,
the pre and post bias are the same,
but it's a little easier to use that way.
So we put that feature in.
And again, like the convolution,
this one only does work
for non-zero elements.
So you can safely pass this rather
sparse matrix and we'll just do the work
that we need to in order to do that.
We're also introducing a whole
set of gamma correction functions.
These come in a variety of flavors.
You can get a generic power curve.
We also provide a few
specialty gammas like SRGB,
which aren't exactly generic power.
These are available in
two different formats.
They're generally floating point geared,
but you can get them in either a full
24-bit or 12-bit precision variance.
And the 12-bit precision obviously
is appropriate for data that was
8-bit integer data to begin with.
We also have a few functions to
do simultaneous 8-bit conversion
with clipping while they're
doing the gamma correction.
And we also provide an interpolated
lookup table stuff for cases where
your gamma curve is not nicely
described by a power function.
by a power function.
So I'd like to invite
Steve Peters up to talk about the
numerics improvements for Tiger.
I'm going to take some time
this afternoon to present the
credentials of our math libraries.
Perhaps some of you have not used
them before and would like to know
a bit about the motivation and also
spend some time with performance.
Hey, it works.
Excellent.
So, job number one for us is conformance
to make porting your applications,
building your applications,
correspond to experience you've
learned on other platforms,
learned in the classroom,
learned from reading the standards.
Who does that anymore?
And at the base, we have a…
We're delivering platforms based on G3,
G4, G5 chips, all of which have IEEE 754
compliant floating-point arithmetic,
both single and double.
When we move up one level
to the elementary functions,
the basic math libraries,
these are also compliant
with the C99 standard.
All the required C99 APIs are present
for complex and long double as well
as we come into the tiger world.
I'm going to have to use these.
We build our linear algebra, the BLAS,
the basic linear algebra subroutines,
from Atlas,
the widely respected open source
package that is automatically
tuned linear algebra software.
We offer the full
panoply of APIs in float,
double, complex, complex double.
And similarly for the gold
standard of numerical computing,
LAPACK, all routines float double,
complex, complex double,
entry points for both C and Fortran.
After conformance,
we're really concerned with performance.
And the flagship of performance now
at Apple is the marvelous G5 CPU,
the PowerPPC 970,
which offers dual floating-point cores.
My recollection,
the first in Apple's line,
and has given us really
stellar performance.
So on each 970 CPU, we find two
Floating Point Cores capable
of doing double precision IEEE,
single precision IEEE.
On any machine cycle,
both of those units can
be pressed into action.
We can start a floating point
instruction down each pipe on
both pipes in a single cycle.
All the basic arithmetic
operations – add,
multiply, subtract,
and divide – are present.
We also get hardware square
root in the PowerPC 970.
That's a real boon to us.
And another class of instructions that
have been present in G4 and now as well
in G5 called the Fused Multiply Add.
Fused Multiply Add takes three operands,
multiplies the first two together,
adds it to the third,
all in the course of one instruction.
So this ends up
Being a key, important operation
fundamental to linear algebra,
the dot product, which is essentially
multiply and accumulate,
multiply, accumulate, multiply,
accumulate.
It's fundamental to the
FFT in much the same way.
If you're doing a function evaluation by,
say, polynomial approximation,
you'll probably want
to use Horner's Rule.
And if you think a little bit about
the way Horner's Rule works out,
it's essentially a fuse, multiply, add,
win.
And at the bottom line,
we get to count two floating point
operations per fuse multiply add.
So on a machine with two
floating point cores,
we get four flops per cycle.
So let's see, four flops per cycle.
I always have to do this in my head.
Four flops per cycle,
two CPUs in the dual G5,
so that's eight flops across two CPUs,
and we clock them at two gigahertz.
So we top out at 16 double-precision
floating-point operations,
16 gigaflops worth of floating-point
operations on a two gigahertz G5.
And now that we're using 2.5s,
I have to update my thinking.
It's 20.
20 gigaflops.
Theoretical peak.
So how do you get to this performance?
How do you get to this great
double-precision performance?
If you've got an existing
Apple Mac OS X binary,
perhaps built for G4,
just bring it across.
The scheduling in the
CPU is really smart.
As the instruction stream
comes along and we start seeing
floating-point instructions,
they get dispatched off to dual CPUs,
and they will finish faster than
if they were sent to a single pipe.
So part of the answer is you
don't have to do anything,
and you should see some performance
in existing binary apps.
Second,
if you're able to recompile your app
– say it's an open-source application,
a code you've developed
– recompile with GCC,
set the proper options that I'll
point to in a tech note later,
and let it schedule instructions in
an even more optimal way for the G5,
and you can see yet more gains.
It's also possible by paying
special attention to algorithmic
details to get even further gains.
For example,
if you're computing a rational
function approximation,
you may be able to arrange the
calculation so that the numerator
is computed simultaneously with
the denominator on the two pipes,
and at the end you just weld
them together with the divide.
This level of attention
we've paid already to LibM,
the basic math library, our BLAS,
our LAPACK, and the vForce library.
Both our G4 and G5 platforms offer
the altivec single instruction
multiple data processor.
This is a four-way parallel
single precision engine.
Doesn't do double precision.
Not at all.
Ian keeps telling me this.
It'll never do double precision.
It's a single precision engine with
a huge appetite for floating point.
It really just rips through
floating point calculations.
All the basic operations are present,
as well as a vector fused multiply add.
So now we get two flops counted for
the fused multiply add on four operands
strung across the 128-bit vector.
That gives us eight flops per cycle.
Let's see.
Can I do the math in my
head for a 2.5 gigahertz G5?
I think that tops out at 40 gigaflops.
Thank you.
Yes.
40 gigaflops tops.
All right.
So how do you get to this performance?
Well, sorry,
you've got to do a little bit of work.
You're going to have to learn a
little bit about vector programming.
There's an out that we've
announced this week.
But it helps to get in
there with your code,
understand where there's
inherent parallelism
In your algorithms,
work those over with the SIMD instruction
set and pass them through the compiler.
Our advice is always profile
first before you dig in.
Find out where the 10% of the code is,
where you're spending 90% of your time,
and go look at those.
Shark is a wonderful tool
for figuring out these cases.
I hope you've seen Shark or plan to
see a Shark Talk sometime this week.
They're playing in a theater near you,
I'm sure.
Auto vectorization is an option,
and this slide was actually written
before the announcement was made
that GCC 3.5 will be offering
some auto vectorization features.
Check those out.
It may be a real boon to getting better
use of the SIMD unit on the G4s and G5s.
There's also a third-party application
called Vaas that can analyze,
I think, Fortran codes to discover
inherent parallelism and
emit the proper Altevec code.
We've gone through at Apple and
paid this kind of attention,
algorithmic attention,
Recasting algorithms
for our vForce library,
our single-precision BLAS,
our single-precision FFTs and
digital signal processing algorithms,
and heavily in vImage.
Well, when you come to our platform
as a developer and kind of
come to that final step,
you know, how do I access these
wonderful libraries,
link, load, and go,
we try to make that as
straightforward as possible.
The library APIs generally
will internally dispatch
for the correct platform,
so we won't go off and try to
execute code that's appropriate
for a G5 on a machine that's a G3,
for example.
Thank you.
Generally, the rule is if the API uses a
The Accelerate Framework is a powerful
suite of platform-optimized libraries
designed to provide high performance
and extensions to these libraries.
The Accelerate Framework
takes full advantage of G3,
G4, and G5 – processors to unlock
best-of-class performance
in your application.
View this session to learn
how the Accelerate Framework
can take your application's
performance to the next level.
Ali Sazegari, Ian Ollmann, Robert Murley,
Steve Peters
Libm links by default.
It's part of Libsystem.
You don't need to say
anything about that.
For our long, double, and complex APIs,
please add -lmx to your link line.
And for vForce, the BLAS, LAPACK, VDSP,
and vImage, the one-stop shopping place
is framework-accelerate.
Just add -framework-accelerate
to your compile and link lines.
I know that's a popular flag,
so I'll let you copy that down.
Well what's new for Math and Tiger?
What have we been working on?
Ali hit the highlights
of the vForce library.
Basically,
we've been told people don't want
to do one square root at a time.
They'd really like to do 768 at a time.
And sure enough,
there are advantages to be had when you
can do many of these things at once.
We also took a BLAS update,
an update to Atlas 3.6.
This helped us in a couple of places.
We of course do additional
Mac OS X specific tune-ups
to that open source drop,
and our compiler technology
improved – thank you,
compiler team – to give
us some nice gains,
and somewhat unexpected gains.
And because of the
faster underlying BLAS,
some improved compilation,
our LAPACK is going faster too.
Now, Ali always likes me to lead
with the strongest graph,
so I can give you a couple
of performance numbers here.
These are some numbers I collected
for the 2.5 GHz G5 dual processor.
It's a set of numbers that in the
sort of computational linear algebra
community you'll see quite a bit.
It measures matrix-multiplied DMM and
then the three decompositions,
LU and the symmetric decompositions,
LL transpose Koleski and the kraut,
U transpose U.
For matrix multiply,
we use various matrix sizes ranging
from 500 up to roughly 9,000.
We get our first plateau a bit over 11
gigaflops and then an interesting jump
around size 5,000 as we push up beyond
the 12 into the 13 gigaflop range.
The decompositions are
a little bit less jumpy,
a little less of a step function,
but look like they're hitting an
asymptote at around 10 gigaflops.
Well,
what's the competition up to these days?
Let's just look at matrix multiply.
Again in yellow is the dual 2.5
GHz G5 topping out at or above 12 GHz.
On the bottom in blue is Opteron,
a 2.0 GHz Opteron.
And they sort of get to about
7 GigaFLOPS in the 2.0 model.
For the purposes of comparison,
we know that they've got
a 2.4 GHz part out there,
and if they were allowed
to perfectly scale,
they'd hit that dashed white line and
come in just a bit over 8 GigaFLOPS.
We expect to see that when
we measure those machines.
Dual 3.2 GHz Xeon is the green.
Gets up a little bit above 10,
probably touches 11 in a
couple of those places.
So 2.5 GHz G5 seems to dominate in the
matrix-multiply game quite handily.
The slide is a bit more busy, but again,
the color should be the guide here.
Yellow, again, G5.
Green is a Xeon and Opteron in blue.
And again, we've scaled Opteron by 20%
for the white dashed line.
G5 seems to dominate again.
This looks a little bit out of place.
I mentioned we did long double.
I think Ali mentioned we did long double.
And we'll also have the
type generic math function,
so that's good to know.
So I want to come back
to this vforce business.
And as Ali alluded to,
the elementary functions
in LibM – square root,
cos, sine,
arcsine – pass a single operand,
do a fairly heavy amount of computation,
and burp out a single result.
It turns out that leaves bubbles
in the modern RISC pipelines.
So we say these C99
APIs are data-starved.
We're also required by IEEE 754
to have very careful control over
the rounding modes and exceptions
that might be generated in the
course of such a computation.
And that adds a fair amount of overhead.
There are instructions that
we'll have to synchronize the
pipe to get that stuff right,
and we pay a pretty good price for that.
So the ideas in V-force are let's pass
many operands through a single call.
Maybe we can get some advantage there.
So if we had 768 values in a vector x and
we wanted to compute the single precision
floating point sine of those things,
we could call VV sine f,
pass x 768 in a place
to stuff the answers y,
or we might have 117 numbers
we want the arc tan of,
and there's a call for that.
We're going to insist on the
IEEE default rounding modes,
and we're not going to
set any exception flags.
So this is for, you know,
close to the metal, high performance,
go as fast as you can,
we don't expect any big problems,
and if there are any, well,
we'll deal with them in some other
manner than the IEEE approach.
So we also get some mileage here
because given multiple operands,
we can pack them together into hardware
vectors on the single precision side and
send them through the AltaVec engine.
This is a very good thing.
Similarly, on the G5,
we can make sure to utilize the two
pipes as effectively as possible.
We do a lot of software pipelining
that is sort of arranging,
let's just say arranging to
fill all the available cycles
on all the floating point pipes.
We unroll loops like crazy,
and we also have taken some
algorithmic approaches that favor
calculation over table lookup and try
to avoid branches like the plague.
It makes these things go very, very,
very fast.
And as Ali pointed out,
we have gains in square root to 3x,
x to nearly 7, and sine was almost 12,
3612.
So, some caveats, right?
This is close to the metal programming.
Generally,
the results are as accurate as LibM,
but they're not bitwise identical.
Don't expect to call and compare
for equality on a list of arguments.
We handle almost all the edge
cases according to C99 and
XG for the special functions.
The exceptions are a few places
around signed zeros – what
happens when plus or minus zero is
passed to one of these routines.
We make no alignment requirements,
although you will get best performance
if you can 16-byte align your data.
Storage returned by malloc is on
Mac OS X by default 16-byte aligned.
This stuff is tuned for the G5.
I mean,
that's the performance flagship here.
But the good news is it runs
quite nicely on G4 and G3.
And of course, we dispatch internally to
the appropriate routine.
You don't need to worry about where
you're running vForce routines.
They just do the right thing.
So one final change of gears
here is to come back to the
elementary functions themselves,
where we've done a bit of tune-up work.
Here are a selected sample of the
probably most used and most loved
elementary functions in our library.
We report the number of G5 cycles
on a random selection over a wide
range of arguments and averaged
over the number of iterations,
square root taking about
35 cycles per element,
sine 52, and so forth.
If you look at what the competition
publishes for the performance of x87,
These are essentially hardware
implementations of these
transcendental functions.
Their square root runs at about 38.
Their exponential,
depending on how you want to count,
runs no less than 150 cycles
to do the 2 to the x part,
and there's a bit of
massaging to get e to the x.
Their logarithm is a winner,
and otherwise we get
all the wins in yellow.
Now those are just sort
of raw x87 numbers.
When you actually package these
things into a library that take
account of rounding requirements and
error flags such as in GNU/Linux,
the performance falls off a bit more.
These G5 numbers are already
in the prescribed IEEE –
in compliance with IEEE,
so there's nothing further to say.
That is LibM.
That's GNU Linux on Intel.
The Accelerate Framework is a powerful
suite of platform-optimized libraries
designed to provide high performance,
high performance,
and high performance in your application.
View this session to learn
how the Accelerate Framework
can take your application's
performance to the next level.
The Accelerate Framework
takes full advantage of G3,
G5, and G5 – processors to unlock
best-of-class performance
in your application.
View this session to learn
how the Accelerate Framework
can take your application's
performance to the next level.
Raw elementary function performance.
I think G5 wins,
but I work on that stuff, so.
There are some notes in
our technical library:
Techno 2086, tuning for the G5,
Techno 2087,
a quick look at the G4 and G5 if you're
familiar with programming for G4,
that will get you bumped
up to G5 in a hurry.
I see some note-takers
finishing up on that.
And some really nice documentation
in the developer reference library
for the Accelerate Framework and
some of its individual components,
vImage, vDSP, and a piece that Ian mainly
maintains on the Velocity
Engine that's sort of a wonderful,
general, gentle introduction to
Simdy Programming.
Is there such a thing, Bob?
I don't know.
That's a good point.